We were able to pass our own data into the component.
How about listening to our own events in view a chance we could emit our only event in re-act we had
to pass event handler to dead on to that component.
No actually we could pass event handler here too but angle does have an easier way or a nice way of
creating a custom event I can add my own event let's named user clicked the name is totally up to you
and that is just an old property and I will assign a value which is initialization of a class angler
offers.
So I'll use the new keyword to create a new instance of a class.
Classes are just blueprints you could say.
And to create objects based on these classes you have to add new.
Now which class do I want to use.
It's the event emitter class and you need to add parentheses to kind of executed like a method and event
motor needs to be imported from an Anglo core to that as the name implies is a class which offers some
functionality to emit our own events.
Event better actually is a generic type generic types are special types which means the event dimeter
class can in this case emit events or holding different types of data.
You could emit event which passes a string.
You could even emit a vent which passes a number two Inforum angler and most of all types stript which
type of data you will eventually emit we add lower than and greater than signs before the parentheses
and then the type of data we want to emit.
Here it's a string because I want to emit a username which is a string.
Now that is our custom property holding a reference or holding this object to see Vandeman or object
we instantiate it.
Now I can add a click listener here and it can execute on user name collect or any name you want.
Don't forget the parentheses.
Now I can add this as a method to my typescript code and here I now want to refer to my user clicked
property which again holds this event dimeter object and used the emit method.
This object provides.
Now here we need to emit a string because that is what we defined here.
And I want to emit my username here.
Now with that we passed that username with our event.
The main problem we have right now is I want to listen to that event in my app component so it would
be nice if I could listen to in parenthesis to use that singular event syntax as used for click and
then listen to the event which probably has the same name as my property user clicked like that.
However out of the box that doesn't work just like we couldn't pass data to username before we added
an input we have to form angular.
That this should leave the scope of that component that we want to be able to listen to that event.
Outside of that component nobody's syntax makes a lot of sense.
If we remembered that at input allowed us to send data from outside so to input data from outside here
we add at output.
And I guess this really makes sense.
We want to output some data to the outside.
We want to output our event output also needs to be imported from an English court.
And now we can go back to the app component file and listen to user clicked in parentheses and execute
some code here like on user was clicked like debt capital W maybe I will copy that and also added to
my ever component.
And now I need to get data which we emitted and that actually works exactly in the same way as in beauteous
we add a dollar sign event that's a reserved variable name provided by angler which will always give
you any data of event ships.
That's also available for native events like to click here Dolorosa event would give us the click event
object the normal object you can get in the javascript to here in the case of our costumey when it's
the day that we emerged.
So the user name a string in the end.
So now we only have to implement on user was clicked in our app component typescript file like this.
And here we know we will eventually get the user name as a string.
So a user name you can give us any name you like and we know it's of type string.
So why don't we tell types that we know that we can do this by adding this type definition as a side
note.
We could also do this here for element where we noted it will be a number.
You don't have to add it as you saw it worked without it.
But it's a good practice to be explicit about the types you're using it makes sure that you get the
best support types can offer you and that will inform you if you use a wrong type.
So your username is a string.
We know that because we emit a string here we can now simply again follow an alert and simply output
that username.
Now if we save this and we go back to our running application if I click Chris It opens on a new screen.
But here we see that it never click.
Anna we see Anna.
So that is how we can implement our own events in angler.